At the beginning of the project, our team discussed thoroughly how we wanted to approach building our app. We first decided to work with React Vite because our previous class example had used this framework. We were also all familiar with React and typescript, so we knew it would be easier for us to understand what the AI was creating with this route. I was the first team member to oversee writing prompts. Together, the team decided to create the app set-up and file structure to start, so I wrote our first prompts based on what we had learned in our last class project. This process was fairly easy and ran without issues.  

When deciding what features to implement next, I reviewed the requirements document and sectioned out features one at a time. During this planning process, the team was able to discuss building strategy. I had also asked Claude to provide some advice on which features would be best to create first once we had a layout of doing a main page, an editing page for events, a user login, and the RSVP feature. Claude provided some good insight, but, overall, planning mostly was done by our team.  

Validating AI output for the first few prompts was performed by reading the AI’s responses to our prompts and making sure the AI was following along with the goals we were trying to achieve. In this, Co-Pilot's memories were very helpful. I especially learned where prompts became “too much” for the AI by checking output. If a prompt was too detailed with too many changes needing to be added, the AI would miss some goals of the prompt. Though we tried to prompt pieces of a feature at a time, Co-Pilot forced our team into a very detailed spec-driven development because it wasn’t very successful in any other way. I also learned not to get ahead of myself in the process. There were times when I wrote prompts while waiting for Co-Pilot to finish running. Sometimes, I would have to edit these already written prompts because the output was different from expected. I found that, no matter what our defined roles were, the team took on every task, especially in the process of adjusting our application and prompts.  

If I could change one thing, I would like to have used a better AI model or Claude Code. We chose our model because we all had it, and it was best for our team at the time. However, the time used for prompts to be carried out somewhat slowed our team’s progress, and GPT-4.1 was not as intuitive as I would have liked. I found myself running short of tokens, especially when my prompts were too computational thinking heavy. Overall, this project was a great way to see what AI can do and learn how to be better at prompting with highly specific goals in mind.  
